Tags for Structuring HTML5

Having been brought up in the era of HTML4.1, the transition to HTML5 was a little tricky for me.
I always though about divs as that which structures a page, but only visually. But with the
advent of HTML5, the role of the HTML tag has moved from that which specifies visual arrangemnt
to that which specifies document structure at a logical and semantic level.

Here is a partial listing of some of the HTML5 tags used to structure HTML documents.
It is important to understand that with HTML5, tags are used to specify a document&apos;s
logical or semantic content, and not its appearance. It is important 
to get this right for purposes of SEO and accesibility.

This is not an exhaustive list. Go to <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element">Mozzilla</a>
to see a more comprehensive list and a more detailed discussion of HTML5 elements.

Top level tags

!DOCTYPE

The DOCTYPE tag informs the browser to follow the HTML specification.

html

The html element is the top level element of an html document. All of the document contents 
occurs between the opening and closing html tags.

Document Head

head

The head of an html document contains information the browser needs to understand and render the document.
It contains the document title, and usually contains scripts and stylesheets that
implement the visual appearance and interactivity of the document. 

title

The title tag contains the document title, which is displayed in the browser tab and is used 
by search engines to display the site title.

link

This tag is generally used to link an external CSS stylesheet, which is used to specify how
the document is displayed.

script

The script tag is used to include external scripts which control the interactivity of the webpage.

Document Body

body

The body tag includes all of the visible the page content, including forms, images, text, et cetera.
The body tag also contains other tags that specify the logical and semantic structure of the document.

header

Not to be confused with the head tag, the header tag contains items that generally introduce the main content.
This often contains things like the site title, logo, tag-line, et cetera.

main

The main tag indicates the primary content of a document.

article

This is meant to specify complete, stand-alone content.

section

This tag indicates a general part of a larger document.

aside

An aside tag specifies independent content that may be tangentially related to the main content

nav

This tag is used to contain links used to navigate the page or website

footer

This tag contains footer information. It may contain contact information.

h1, h2,h3, h4, h5, and h6

These tags specify document headings. While h1 ones are often the largest heading, and h6 the smallest,
the main function of these tags is not to specify the heading size. Rather, they are meant
to specify the level of importance of each heading. Screen readers (for the visually impaired)
often utilize these headings to navigate within the document, so it is important to use these properly.

div

divs, if used at all, should be used very sparingly, and when there are no other options.
See <a href="https://dev.to/kenbellows/stop-using-so-many-divs-an-intro-to-semantic-html-3i9i" target="_blank">
Stop Using So Many Divs</a>.